>> Kevin Powell: Now that we've got to
this point, I wanna talk a little bit
about this idea of staying
organized as a project is growing.
Because we went from having sort of talked
a lot early on about reusable things,
utility classes, reusable layouts.
And then getting into the components,
like our cards and other things.
And then we got to the second page,
and then it's like, okay, well,
now we need these more custom things,
so let's add this title in there for
the bento grid, and
then we need our mushroom guide.
And we start getting these more
custom things that come in.
And this is always what
happens as a project grows.
And so it's really important as this
is happening, that when these things
are being added to the project you're
thinking a little bit about how you're
going to approach creating them and
doing them instead of just jumping in.
Just like we did early on when
we got that big picture view and
we were trying to work on that.
When you get to things that
are a little bit smaller, or
a new thing that's been
added to the project,
you wanna take that same mentality or
that same approach to what you're doing.
So planning it out before you dive in.
And we could look at the Figma file, and
just as an example when we got to this
grid here, I could have just
done the mushroom guide and
made a very specific grid just for
the mushroom guide.
But I went, well, this grid is really
a generic grid with cards in it.
So while I need that mushroom guide in
there to do a little bit of the styling,
it helped us change the titles and
the spacing on those cards,
I didn't wanna link that grid specifically
to that one space on the website.
I wanted to make something that
was a little bit more generic and
that I could use that way.
And so,
then when I got to this bento grid, well,
then I didn't really have a choice there
because this is really a unique layout
that's probably never gonna
be repeated anywhere else.
So then you think about it, you go,
okay, I can use my generic cards, but
I just need to make a layout that's
very specific to this one use case.
And so, always looking at the bigger
picture as these different things
are coming in.
And trying to create reusable
things as much as possible,
even if it's a new thing that's
been added to your project.
And as we've seen through
it everything now, and
I've been very heavy-handed in
my use of custom properties.
I'd say there's never any harm in making
something a custom property that's
locally scoped.
I'm a huge fan of locally
scoped custom properties,
I throw them on tons
of stuff all the time.
And it just makes it so that one thing
that you've created suddenly is more
reusable and more customizable if you
throw it into different situations.
We've also been playing a little bit with
cascade layers, so I think that using and
leveraging those layers can
just help with organization.
Even just from a mental perspective
of when you're coming in and
looking through your CSS file.
Of knowing, okay,
I just have this reset at the top, and
then I have this base layer and
my layout things and my components.
And the ordering in there can get a little
bit mixed up or you could potentially come
in with sublayers,
I'm gonna talk about that very soon.
But just having this sort of mental
organization of your different things can
really go a long way.
And it's one of those things that you're
going to get better at the more you do it.
Cuz you're gonna throw
something in one layer and
then you realize it doesn't
really make sense there.
And the next time you do it, maybe you'll
put it somewhere else so you refactor it,
you put it somewhere else,
and there's no harm in that.
There's no harm in having more layers or
less layers, or just having one layer and
then having your other code down here.
Cuz I could have a whole bunch
of layered stuff at the top and
then subgeneral stuff at the bottom.
If I have lots of layers,
I probably wouldn't wanna do that.
But if I just have a reset at the top and
then I have my other code at the bottom,
I think something like that
could work out well too.
With all of that,
I think it's also really important to
recognize that refactoring is okay.
We saw really small examples of that when
I changed the card from being display grid
to display flex because I ran into
a situation where I said, you know what?
This actually makes more sense, and
it's not gonna break anything
that I've already done.
So don't be scared about changing
the way something's working.
Or if you come into something such as,
if you made these cards in a very specific
way and they worked in that one way and
it was fine.
But then you got to these cards and you
realized, they're actually really similar.
Maybe I need to make a change to that
other thing instead of just layering more
and more CSS on stuff,
that can be a really good idea.
And one example that you could do
in this project if you wanted to.
We don't need to because we don't
have other buttons to do, but
you could definitely refactor the buttons
to be something that's a little bit more
customizable and reusable.
Just setting them up the same way
we've done a few other things,
where you set them up with custom
properties with fallbacks.
So you have a default that's just
using the custom properties.
And then you manipulate them a little
bit for how you have them set up, and
then you can make changes.
You have a brand version of your button.
So however you're doing your modifier
classes, whether it's with modifier
classes, whether it's with the data
attributes like I've been doing.
You can then just set
the button-background,
the button-background-hover, the text.
And you can do all of this, and
this is really awesome to do when you have
things like hover states and other things.
Cuz you just go on the parent selector,
and you can redefine all these
different things without having to
then select the hover state again or
then select this other
version of it again.
One selector just to make all of these
different changes that are happening.
One thing with this is sometimes people
don't like having the fallbacks the way
we've set them up here.
Just because if you looked
at this at first glance,
you can't tell me what the color is,
you have to think about it a little bit.
So for these types of components,
the other thing you could do
instead is do it this way.
Where you're just saying
the color is button-text,
the background is button-background,
the border radius is button-border-radius.
And then you have all these custom
properties just at the top, and it makes
it a lot more readable and quick, very
quickly you know exactly what's going on.
And then, again,
you have this settings down here,
but this is what's controlling
everything through that component.
And it makes it very easy to overwrite and
make changes to it.
The one drawback of doing
something this way is,
because these custom properties
are being defined on the button itself,
on the parent,
you can't make any changes to it.
Because the parent, you declare something
and then it's getting defined here.
And I just bring that up because we took
advantage of that a little bit in our
components, like here, where I had
the mushroom guide, where the parent was
redeclaring some custom properties,
and I was able to set them there.
So you have to think a little bit about,
does this button gonna be something
that's self encapsulated?
And I'm only gonna be changing the styles
of it through a modifier class or
something like that?
Or do I want it to be something where
I can change a style up higher and
that's gonna bleed through
into these subcomponents or
these things that
are nested inside of there?
So it is a little bit of a give and take.
You can definitely mix and match a little
bit, so buttons could be something where,
no, I don't want those to
be changed by the parent.
I only want the button to control what the
button looks, but the titles of the cards,
I think it makes sense to
have that extra level.
I wish I could say that this is the right
way to do it, this is the wrong way to do
it, it's project to project,
it's personal preference a little bit.
And it's one of those things that I really
just encourage you to experiment with,
play with, and
have some fun with it, to be honest.
And to see how it works while you're using
it and trying out different ways to do
it as you're writing your CSS to find
these things that you feel work for you,
but using custom properties
as much as possible.
Locally scoped ones, I find has been
a complete game changer for me.
And it just makes life so much easier to
have these more robust components, or
these more robust, I keep calling
them components cuz it's a button or
something like that.
It's not the component in the JS framework
sense, but these more robust elements and
classes and everything,
they are more reusable along the way.